README.MD, before:

# Pavel's Home Assistant add-on repository

Here are HA addons by PavelVe

[![Open your Home Assistant instance and show the add add-on repository dialog with a specific repository URL pre-filled.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_add_addon_repository.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_add_addon_repository/?repository_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpavelve%2Fhome-assistant-addons)

## Repository installation

Press the button, or
1. Navigate to addons page on your HA instalaiton
2. Press three dots in the top right corner
3. Add repository https://github.com/pavelve/home-assistant-addons to addon repositories
4. Install addon from addons page
5. Start addon and visit it's page

## Add-ons

This repository contains the following add-ons

### [TeltonikaServer](./TeltonikaServer)


![Supports aarch64 Architecture][aarch64-shield]
![Supports amd64 Architecture][amd64-shield]
![Supports armhf Architecture][armhf-shield]
![Supports armv7 Architecture][armv7-shield]
![Supports i386 Architecture][i386-shield]

This addon receives AVL data from Teltonika GPS devices over TCP and logs it with timestamps for further processing or diagnostics.


[aarch64-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/aarch64-yes-green.svg
[amd64-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/amd64-yes-green.svg
[armhf-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/armhf-no-red.svg
[armv7-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/armv7-yes-green.svg
[i386-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/i386-no-red.svg

Commit message:

Update README to include SMS Gammu Gateway add-on details

README.MD, after:

# Pavel's Home Assistant add-on repository

Here are HA addons by PavelVe

[![Open your Home Assistant instance and show the add add-on repository dialog with a specific repository URL pre-filled.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_add_addon_repository.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_add_addon_repository/?repository_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpavelve%2Fhome-assistant-addons)

## Repository installation

Press the button, or
1. Navigate to addons page on your HA instalaiton
2. Press three dots in the top right corner
3. Add repository https://github.com/pavelve/home-assistant-addons to addon repositories
4. Install addon from addons page
5. Start addon and visit it's page

## Add-ons

This repository contains the following add-ons

### [TeltonikaServer](./TeltonikaServer)

![Supports aarch64 Architecture][aarch64-shield]
![Supports amd64 Architecture][amd64-shield]
![Supports armhf Architecture][armhf-shield]
![Supports armv7 Architecture][armv7-shield]
![Supports i386 Architecture][i386-shield]

This addon receives AVL data from Teltonika GPS devices over TCP and logs it with timestamps for further processing or diagnostics.

### [SMS Gammu Gateway](./GamuGatewaySMS)

![Supports aarch64 Architecture][aarch64-shield]
![Supports amd64 Architecture][amd64-shield]
![Supports armhf Architecture][armhf-shield]
![Supports armv7 Architecture][armv7-shield]
![Supports i386 Architecture][i386-shield]

REST API SMS Gateway using python-gammu for USB GSM modems (SIM800L, Huawei E1750, etc.). Send and receive SMS messages via REST API with authentication.


[aarch64-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/aarch64-yes-green.svg
[amd64-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/amd64-yes-green.svg
[armhf-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/armhf-no-red.svg
[armv7-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/armv7-yes-green.svg
[i386-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/i386-no-red.svg
